###################
Project conventions
###################

This document describes the common conventions for all projects contained
in RPA Framework. All repositories and libraries which are
part of the project should follow the conventions to make maintenance
and bootstrapping easier.

Naming
======

All libraries in the framework are named with a shared convention. This convention
is the prefix ``rpaframework-*``, for example ``rpaframework-secrets`` for
a secrets management library. This name is used for both the git repository
and PyPI package.

Packages released under the framework will be in a shared Python namespace,
which is currently ``RPA``.

Version Control
===============

All sources, i.e. code, documentation, examples, will be hosted in Github.
These repositories will be public and available for inspection and forking
by other users. They will be contained in Robocorp's Github organization.

Availability
============

The primary source for RPA Framework libraries is the Python Package Index (PyPI).
Packages should be reserved according to the `Naming`_ policy. Packages should
also include the correct `trove classifiers <https://pypi.org/classifiers/>`_
to make finding them easier.

For Robocode Lab usage, the packages should be installable via Conda. This
can be handled in either pip interop mode (in Conda) or by releasing
into completely new packages into a Conda channel. The maintenance burden for
the latter can be eased by having a separate Robocorp channel.

Documentation
=============

All libraries will have public documentation that includes both technical
API documentation and (simple) usage instructions.

Documentation will be available in Github Pages, which will handle hosting.

Library documentation will be stored in version control and will be generated by Sphinx.
Both Python and Robot Framework API documentation will be autogenerated from
source files. The primary docstring format for libraries is reStructuredText.

The documentation will also include examples usages for both Python
and Robot Framework. In-depth guides will be available separately in Robohub.

Creating documentation will be the responsibility of the library developer.

Code Formatting
===============

All Python code should be automatically formatted using the
`Black <https://github.com/psf/black>`_ tool. For convention issues which are
not strictly formatting, `flake8 <https://github.com/PyCQA/flake8>`_ is used.

These conventions should be validated for all pull requests. The project should
probably offer a pre-commit hook which checks them automatically.

Reasons why auto-formatting is a good idea, from a similar Javascript tool:
`Why Prettier? <https://prettier.io/docs/en/why-prettier.html>`_

Testing
=======

All libraries should have decent test coverage through unittests. The main
tool for creating unittests is pytest. Coverage should also be tracked
automatically, and this can be done via a pytest plug-in.

Each repository should also include example Robot Framework tasks
that use the provided keywords. These examples can be used in the
documentation, but they should also act as runnable acceptance tests.

In addition to functional testing, libraries should be validated according
to common `coding conventions <#code-formatting>`_.

Continuous Integration
======================

All commits and pull requests should be validated automatically. The current
best tooling option is Github Actions.

Validation steps should include at least formatting, unittests, and packaging.

The CI pipeline is a matrix of the following:

- Platforms:

    + Windows
    + Linux
    + MacOS

- Python versions:

    + Python 3.6
    + Python 3.7
    + Python 3.8

Change Log
==========

All packages should keep track of changes. This includes all additions,
removals, changes, bug fixes, etc. that affect users. All created releases
should contain a change log entry.

Change logs are meant to be human-readable and generating them from git log
entries is not an acceptable method. The process can be entirely manual or
rely on tools such as ``towncrier``.

Versioning
==========

Semantic versioning is used when creating packages. The gist of it is as follows:

Given a version number MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH, increment the:

* MAJOR version when you make incompatible API changes,
* MINOR version when you add functionality in a backwards compatible manner, and
* PATCH version when you make backwards compatible bug fixes.

Other issues
============

Type hinting
------------

Type hinting is supported since Python 3.6 and improves the maintainability
of projects after they reach a certain size. Hints are also used by
Robot Framework to automatically convert input arguments from keywords.

All keyword libraries should strive to add type hinting and they should
be validated with a tool such as ``mypy``.

.. note::
    Type hints are not supported by Python versions older than 3.6.
    The RPA Framework project aims to support versions 3.6 and newer, but
    if required, the hinting features are available through a backport package.

IPython / Notebook support
--------------------------

Robocode Lab is based on the IPython / Jupyter Notebook project, which allows
libraries to visualize output and create interactive widgets. This is an
integral part of explorative RPA workflow, and should be taken into account
while developing libraries.
